Ladies and gentlemen, friends of Tennessee, we have a very distinguished guest with us today
about whom you have heard much, and I know that all of you admire him as I do.
During the time that I have served on the Armed Services Committee of the Senate and
on the Senate Defense Appropriations Committee, I've gotten to know and to hear a great
deal.
A test, I know this man well and I hear his ideas about space and research and the air
command of our great nation.
I guess today is General Bernard A. Sriever, who is head of the Air Force Systems Command.
We'd like to have you with us, Jan. B. Heter.
Let me say by way of an introduction to General Sriever, who was born in Berman Germany
that he immigrated to the United States in 1917, grew up in Texas by a graduated from
Texas A&M.
He served seven campaigns with the 19th bomber group in the Southwest Pacific in World War
Two.
And through a series of top advancements and assignments, he is now the commander of the
Vital Research and Development Program of our Air Force.
General Sriever, tell us just what is the Air Force Systems Command and what does it
do?
Well, let's say very large organization.
We have some 75,000 people.
We're responsible for all of the research and development in the Air Force and specifically
the development of weapons systems such as the Atlas, the Titan, the Minuteman, the
RS-70, all the space work that the Air Force does.
And our total budget runs in the neighborhood of $7.5 billion a year so you can see we
have a very large job to do.
The RS-70 will be even more than 80's time goes on, but $7.5 billion a year is a lot of
money.
Otherwise, you have some missiles and rockets here.
These are things, developments that are under your command.
Yes, sir.
I might just, this is the X-15, which of course is an experimental aircraft that you've seen
so much about in the press in the last year.
What have you been in miles an hour?
Well, that has gone at speeds of about 4,000 miles an hour and at altitudes of 250,000
feet.
We work, actually NASA works with us on this program.
This is the latest long range ICBM called the Titan II.
This is also used as the booster.
We'll be used as the booster for our dinosaur program in the Air Force.
It's also the booster for the NASA Gemini program.
Is that the latest man in space program?
And it will be the booster year for our sending a man to the moon.
No, sir.
It will not be the booster for the man in the moon program, but it will provide NASA with
a great deal of information that they need in their lunar program.
So it ties in directly with the lunar program.
The fact of us here is, of course, the Atlas.
This is our first ICBM, which is operational now.
Well, you mean we know what you mean by an ICBM, but just to have a whole other ICBM
do.
Firstly, we consider 5,500 miles as the ICBM range, but the Atlas has capabilities
or considerably an excess of that.
We've fired them ranges up to 9,000 miles.
And your accuracy and hitting response has been very phenomenal, I understand.
Much better than we had hoped for in back in 1954.
I can't give the exact accuracy for security reasons, but it's been very, very good.
And then when we start sending up space communication satellites, which many of us were interested
into, get news and voice and television and communications to all parts of the world.
One of these may be used to put the communication satellite into orbit.
No matter the fact that the boosters that were developed by the Air Force are being used
for that purpose, the floor, I don't have a model here, will be used.
The Atlas has been one of our leading space boosters that's been the boosters to use for
the mercury, for example.
It also has planned to be used for these communication satellites.
General Schlafer sometimes back representatives from the Telehoma Aero, Arnold Engineering
Development Center, and Congressman Evans, Senator Gore, representatives of the State
of Tennessee, and the University of Tennessee, and had a meeting with you and other people
from the Air Force that you're in Washington about a very important project in connection
with the Arnold Engineering Development Center of Telehoma.
I want to ask you about that in a minute, but first tell us the importance of this very
important installation of Telehoma.
Well, I'd be glad to because it's been one of my favorite facilities after the war actually
planning wise, it came under my office in the Pentagon.
And it has really grown up to be what we consider in the Air Force.
The major facility that we have that we can provide tests on the ground for space vehicles.
Every major program that we've had in the Air Force, every ballistic missile program,
every rocket program, every space program, we have run very important tests in the towns
that Telehoma at the Arnold Engineering Center.
This same thing holds true for many of the NASA programs as well as the Navy's Polaris,
for example.
So the contribution that the Arnold Center has made to our missile and space programs has
been very, very great indeed.
Well, we're not proud of it.
Aero is recorded in Tennessee, and as I got it, these tests of all of the missiles and
rockets and everything that has to do about space at the Arnold Engineering Development
Center gives you factual information about what their activity will be when they're
actually employed.
That's correct.
I can give you one quick example.
We were having a great deal of difficulty in our discoverer program in the recovery of
the capsule from outer space.
I think you remember that, and we got a lot of publicity in the paper.
We actually by conducting wind tunnel tests at Telehoma discovered what was wrong with
the parachute coming out in its reentry.
We corrected that, and we've had no more difficulty with that part of the program ever since.
Here's just one example of the payoffs that we have gotten and testing at Telehoma.
Well, we know that this time has been going on, that the importance of Telehoma through
our Air Force, to our space effort has been growing and growing and expanding.
Here's the future of the Arnold Engineering Development Center, where it will continue
to be an even more important part of our space effort.
Well, I don't think there's any question, but that it will be.
We are just really scratching the surface in space.
We have tremendous plans for the center.
We are now putting in what we call a test configuration of an environmental test facility
at Telehoma.
We hope to move on to a very large scale space environmental test facility.
We have the power there.
We have the resources in the way of trained people.
It's an ideal place for it.
It's in the planning phases now.
In addition, we're planning with your good people in Tennessee, the University of Tennessee
and the University of Tennessee.
Yes, that's what I wanted to ask you to talk about something.
It's a great importance to all of Tennessee.
We're talking now about the Tennessee Space Institute.
That's right.
I'll tell us about it.
Well, let's...we, of course, in the Air Force feel that the technological explosion that
the world has experienced in the past 10 or 15 years and which will continue.
The education will perhaps be the crucial factor in our technological struggle and struggle
as a whole with communism.
We need to particularly develop greater capabilities in this country for advanced graduate work.
The Institute is...in the planning stages now, I have several documents here that indicate
that we've been very active in this planning and it's to be...the plan is to locate it,
adjacent two facilities at the Arnold Center and it would be operated under the University
of Tennessee as a graduate institute.
I think it's a wonderful idea.
We've gotten tremendous enthusiasm and support from the people in Tennessee so far.
I believe that the present time there is a request for the acquisition of some 400 acres
of land for the buildings and laboratories and whatnot.
That is true and this will be located to the right adjacent to the lake there.
It's a beautiful location.
I was out the center just about a month ago and it's a wonderful spot for a school and
with the facilities of the center being available to the school, it can really be one of our
leading research centers in the country.
In addition to what the students for, masters or doctors degrees, where they're learning
in the classroom, they have practical application and can have practical experience in the center
itself.
That's right.
That's the beauty of it and that's what makes it unique and I think that we can well
lead the way here.
As Arnold Srieber's, I understand it and we've had several discussions about it.
The importance is to be a joint effort on the part of the state of Tennessee, the University
of Tennessee and as we all know Dr. Holt and the president of the University and his
people are very interested in cooperative design.
As we all know, the Air Force and NASA and Navy and other federal agencies, that's
right.
The center is, whereas it's operated by the Air Force, we not only welcome, but we look
for work that we can do and support of the Navy, NASA and the Army and we do support them
a great deal now and we'll certainly continue to do so because we look at it as a national
resource.
And you need men educated in the field that would receive their instruction.
There it is, Arnold Engineering Development Center Institute, or Tennessee Space Institute
that we're going to call it.
Right.
We've had several different names but the latest is the, I've got a variety of Tennessee
Space Institute.
General Srieber, how soon do you envision with everybody cooperating fully that this
can become a reality because it's a great and unique development to understand?
Well, I think that we could certainly get started in, go beyond the planning and start
implementing and doing another words.
Within the next 12 months, and I would say that if everything is pushed the way it should
in my opinion, we could certainly get students there within a matter of a year or two, even
before we have all the facilities and file forms.
The attitude and the desires there so we can get started, I think, real soon.
Now, I understand that the Arnold Engineering Development Center has been allocating some
of its funds already out of its own pocket for the purpose of getting least planning.
Yes, in the next, in the planning.
Yes, sir, our people are very enthusiastic about this and what we call the military side
and arrow have been working on.
Is there any institute of this kind in the United States at the present time, or is this
unique, or is it not unique?
This would be the first institute of this kind that I know anything about and I'm sure
I'm correct, so it would be unique, but I'm sure that more would follow.
And you'll give masters and doctors degrees to the students there and they could.
Yes, sir, that's right.
Study for them.
Well, once you know our General Srever, I'm sure you do already that we in Tennessee are
very interested in this project and everybody is anxious to cooperate with you and with
NASA and we hope it becomes a reality in the near future.
And on behalf of the listeners over this station, I want to thank you very much for being
with us today.
That's all until next time.
Ladies and gentlemen and friends of Tennessee, this is the first of monthly television programs
that I will endeavor to bring you during this session of the Congress of the United States.
I want to thank this station for carrying these programs as a public service and thank
you for your interest in them.
We will endeavor to have with us distinguished leaders in government from time to time and
we will appreciate any suggestions that you might make as to the subject matters to be
covered in the various programs.
Approximately, at the end of January, we will have another program on what happens in the
first part of this Congress and then at the end of each month thereafter.
And again, I want to thank this station and its ownership and managers and all of you
for your help in making these programs successful.
Today is the beginning of this session of the Congress.
The House of Representatives met on yesterday and elected John McCormick as Speaker of
the House, Carl Albert from Oklahoma as the majority leader.
Today we also had our caucus and on the Senate side, which was very harmonious.
The program for the session was discussed.
And I think we will have a very good democratic unity and working together on the Senate side.
It's our great honor today to have one of the leaders of the House of Representatives
with us on this program who is well known to people in Tennessee.
He is Congressman Hale Boggs from the State of Louisiana.
He distinguished Congressman who's leadership in the House of Representatives has been
pronounced for many, many years.
Before calling on Hale, I want to say that he came to the House of Representatives about
a two years after Senator Gore and I, he first came in 1941.
He served in the United States Navy as an officer to time out to be in the Navy.
And later to almost get elected as Governor of the State of Louisiana.
He is the new whip of the House of Representatives.
And it's good to see you have you, whether it's Congressman Hale Boggs.
After such a pleasure to meet with you, our friendship goes back for many years.
And I might say to the people of Tennessee that knowing you has been a great inspiration
to me.
I've been to Tennessee many times.
This thing and campaigning.
Yeah, I want to talk about some of those times.
Every time we ask you to come down for some democratic occasion, you're always very willing
to do so.
I remember one time you came down to Nashville to our big democratic meeting.
Hale, maybe an outstanding speech.
When you were a nice, our number of particularly gone to Knoxville in 1956 when we had a round
up there when you were a candidate for Vice President of the United States.
Yeah, we had had at least Stevenson with us on that day.
Yeah, yeah.
Well, I'd like to see a lot of the country and we enjoyed our travels around.
We weren't too successful, but it was a great experience anyway.
Well, needless to say, yes, this is a pleasure for me to go to Tennessee.
My last trip there was with Speaker Avin and Charlotte before he had to leave here.
You remember?
Just the dedication in July of the bridge up to the North City on the Tennessee River.
We were down to Speaker Rayburn and you were very wonderful to come.
That was his last trip to Tennessee.
I think that he got more pleasure out of that trip than anything that's happened to him
in a long time because you remember Hale, his relatives on both sides of the river all
came to see him.
Well, I went fishing with him, asked his son a little like there and he reminisced about
his childhood in Tennessee.
So what you and the governor and the other people in Tennessee did for him that day I think
was really magnificent.
And I believe you called a lot of fish too, did we show it to you?
I remember when you came back, you forgot to wrap up my package for him.
Well, Hale, you just been elected as the whip of the House of Representatives.
Have you got a whip with you?
Not a lot.
I got a lot.
Lastly, third in command, the Speaker of course of the House is Mr. McCormick, Massachusetts.
Old and good friend of ours and Carl Albert is the majority leader in the year of the next
in the rank as the whip.
What is the, what are the duties of the whip?
Of course, Percy Priest was the...
Joe, wonderful, Congressman Percy Priest was whip for quite a long time.
Well, what do you do?
Well, the whip has several functions.
He's a assistant majority leader to begin with.
This means that he has responsibility with the leader for the programming the House.
In addition to that, he's the man that's relied upon to give the temper of the House.
We have assistant whips who check each member on the Democratic side to ascertain his feelings
and see whether they're going to go to the right or not.
I know it right or wrong.
And this is quite helpful.
We know at least to some extent how we stand on legislation.
It's not an easy job.
It's a rough job.
A lot of them don't like to say how they stand on legislation as you will know.
Yeah, and then you have to get all the Democratic members there to keep your left of the
vote.
And the House, as you recall, many of the most important votes don't occur by way of
a roll call.
They have a teller and standing votes.
And if our numbers are not there, we can lose without even knowing we're losing.
That's right.
Well, during the last few days you've had several visits to the White House with the
leadership of the Democratic Party and with the bipartisan leadership to get briefings
on the state of the Union and state of our defenses and on the legislative program.
Would you tell us about your visits with the President and his advisors?
Well, it's very difficult to talk about the legislative program without coming to just
one committee in the Congress in this session.
Most of the legislation that we are confronted with involves taxes or variations of taxes
like tariffs, social security.
And all of these under the Constitution must originate in the House representatives, specifically
in the Committee on Ways and Means.
And on yesterday, the President added another one which also goes to the Ways and Means Committee,
named for the problem of debt limitation.
So that all of the discussions have sent it almost primarily upon the House Ways and Means
Committee in this program.
And upon the Side Finance Committee, which is the Companion Committee and the Side,
the legislative matters as you know involve taxes and I don't give them necessarily in
priority or rather a comprehensive tax revision program.
The President is rightly interested in stimulating more investment in American enterprises.
You know there's been some conversation about this administration being at risk of business.
Here I know, in my opinion nothing could be further from the truth.
The President recognizes a vital connection between the prosperity and the function of
the government.
As a matter of fact, as you know from your own studies, a difference of employment of a
million people means a difference in revenues of about three and a half billion dollars.
So that if employment drops off by a million, our revenues decrease by three and a half billion
dollars or if employment increases by a million, revenues increase by three and a half billion
dollars.
So one of the main concerns of the press and any economic advisors has been this business
of unemployment.
Despite the fact that business particularly in the third and fourth quarters of 1961,
was at boom proportions, we still were running a rate of unemployment of over five percent,
which is way too high.
This brings us to consideration of the tax program.
Now let's talk a little more about the tax program.
There is a recommendation that certain loopholes be closed such as excessive expense accounts
and things of that sort with the safe treasury, a lot of money.
And then the President recognizes that businesses got to employ more people, produce more
and compete with more competitive markets such as the common market in Europe so that
there is a program for an investment incentive.
Just what is that?
And I think it has merit, but you know more about it tonight.
Well this program would permit business establishments, both large and small, to obtain
a tax credit of up to eight percent of the funds that they used to for expanding their
plant equipment or improving their plant.
Now as you pointed out, Senator, this is important for a variety of reasons.
Number one, to increase the jobs in the United States.
And number two, to put us in a competitive position with the common market to countries,
which incidentally is probably the second item of consideration on the President's
program.
Now the tax program of course is for the Ways and Means Committee of which you have
seen your member.
And then the giving the President broader powers and connections with tariffs to negotiate
so that we can make arrangements with the common market of Europe is the other matter
we were going to discuss.
Yes.
I want to say in connection with the common market of Europe that of course I was in Paris
this fall, as you know as a member of the NATO parliamentarians conference and you were
there also, that it has become a reality.
There are lowering tariff barriers, restrictions on trade, talking about their common currency.
Europe is important to us because we have a favorable trade balance there.
Also, if we don't trade with them, we can't work together militarily and politically.
So I think from every viewpoint, our own personal opinion is we must work out and give the
President some leeway and negotiating with the common market.
That will be a very controversial issue before the Congress.
How do you feel about it and how do you think it's going to go and whether the reason for
us getting into this here?
Well, that's just number one.
I should like to point out and I'm sure all the people of Tennessee know this.
That you probably have made the greatest contribution of any American towards the unification
of Europe which is now a reality.
I know that for many, many years you wake towards this goal.
From my late-Ladigrins and friends, I have a little appreciation for it.
Now, to my way of thinking this is really one of the significant events of this century
for a great variety of reasons.
Number one, it presents the greatest problem that the communists have faced.
They have operated on a theory, as you know, that the West was deconent, that Europe would
decline fast and finally we would be isolated and we too would fall.
Now with the vitality of Europe growing in a rate exceeding 8% of gross national products,
it's an absolute enigma to them.
It applies all of the communist dogma so that politically this is the greatest thing
that's happened to us as a nation, to the whole West, to the whole West, non-communist
world.
But on economic point of view, this is a vital type of competition that we're faced
with, both in agricultural commodities and in manufactured articles, so that if our
government doesn't have the authority, the power to negotiate with the common market
and operate more or less in the partnership arrangement, we could become great rivals.
And if that happened, then the Soviets would have succeeded in driving a wedge between us,
which would be a very dangerous thing for the West, so that what the President is really
saying is that the common market is something very vital to us politically and militarily
and economically.
But we, on the other hand, must recognize the fact that it's also a challenge.
Therefore, he says to us, as members of Congress, give me the power to negotiate realistically
with these people.
I think when the American people understand this, they will give the President that thought.
Well, that's a good summer up.
And hey, old week, you could go on here and talk about many things for a long, long time,
but our time is up, and I hope we can have you back with us.
I want to thank you very much for cheering on these stations today.
And I wish you the very best luck as the new whip of the Democrats in the House of Representatives.
Thank you, son.
That's all for now.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen, friends of Tennessee, today we have the distinct pleasure and
honor of having with us as our guest, one of the most important men in the government
of the United States, a man who's been known to you for his excellent coverage of news
and his objective treatment of news concerning domestic and world affairs over Columbia Broadcasting
Company for many years.
He's an old and good friend of mine.
Everett or Murrow, the head of the United States Information Agency, he had a certain
he is good to have you with us.
And very pleasant to be with you again, son.
I know that many viewers of this program will remember the great enjoyment and benefit
they got out of watching and seeing and hearing you over a period of many years when you
would with Columbia Broadcasting Company.
Well, I find what I'm doing now much more fascinating and I think more important than
anything I've done before.
Ed, exactly what is the United States Information Agency that you had a...
Well, as you know, it's an independent agency reporting directly to the president.
Secures its budget appropriations from the Congress as a budget this year of $111.5 million.
Its purpose, I would define briefly and I know that you like brevity on these programs.
I know everybody is very much interested in it.
I think it's terribly important.
I would define its purpose briefly as being to make United States policy everywhere intelligible
and wherever possible, palatable.
We do not operate inside this country.
We operate the voiceless America.
You only operate here when you make a mistake and it's when you hear a lot about it.
Yes, we receive publicity when we make it to state.
All the good things that you do, 99 and 9 tens per cent of the time, you don't hear much
about in the United States.
That's the thing.
When you fall on your face, you...that's true.
That's true.
Congress and the people are all over you.
Our work begins at the Water's Edge.
We operate the voice of America in a shortwave radio operation.
We have a television service, a film program.
We operate libraries in 99 countries abroad.
We operate a wireless file which sends from this country to our missions abroad about 10,000
word each day, made up largely of official statements, background material.
The sort of thing that is of use to our embassies and our representatives abroad.
We publish pamphlets.
We engage in a program to produce cheap books in translation in Latin America, in Africa,
in Southeast Asia.
We have a cultural officer stationed abroad who handle the foreign end of exchange programs,
collecting students to come to this country on fellowships.
Also arranging the leader grants, that is a program under which we bring to this country,
young editors, professors, that sort of thing, who, when they return to their own country,
will be able to explain what this country is about.
Its purpose is its institutions.
That in essence is the U.S.I.
Well, since you have been the head of the U.S.I.
and I may say also during the previous administration, I had an opportunity of being in some cities
in foreign countries, friendly countries.
And I had the impression that the pamphlets and the books are giving the truth about
the United States, what we stand for and what we are trying to do, where much appreciated
by the people, particularly the young people in those nations, and that this was doing
more than most anything I saw to build good relations with the people in those countries.
How do you feel the program is far as libraries and information is coming along?
Well, in the new countries, particularly in Africa, Southeast Asia, the hunger for something
to read, the desire for knowledge, the curiosity about this country.
I failed to mention earlier that we also teach English.
We will be teaching English this year to about a quarter of a million people in Mexico City
alone.
7,500 people go to our English classes each day.
That's what I mean.
And to sit and see people, and I've seen them from Latin America to Nigeria in the course
of the last year, to see them sitting around at night in adult education classes, reading
and discussing the writings of Tom Paine, or in Nigeria just a couple of weeks ago, the
Federalist Papers.
This is a very exciting thing because these people are trying to hammer out their own destiny,
and they're looking about, for example, for newer legions.
As I said, it's the most exciting thing I've ever tried to do.
I've been impressed, Ed, that under you, the USI is not what we would call it propaganda
agency.
All you do is to try to give people in other countries a true and factual and objective
picture of what we're doing here.
Of course that's in addition to the teaching programs, in addition to the student exchange
programs and things of that sort.
That is the way you operate it isn't it?
It is indeed, and I am convinced that we have no alternative.
We must tell the truth because everything we say in an open society is subject to comparison.
And the material that is sent out of here, films, television, the wire agencies and so
forth, all of that is available to people abroad.
And therefore, if we must tell the truth whether we want to or not, and I happen to think
that it is the only method by which we can proceed.
Well, I certainly agree with you.
Now, what programs does the US Information Agency carry on behind the iron curtain
and the Soviet block, if any?
Primarily, it is short-wave broadcasting through the voice of America.
However, we will have had this year in the Soviet Union, traveling exhibits, having to
do one with plastics, the whole plastics industry, the products that we produce, another with
transportation, the whole development of transportation here.
And one is leaving at the end of this month having to do with medicine.
And the curiosity, I seem to have some knowledge of drugs.
Yes.
The curiosity on the part of the Soviet people about this country is really very impressive.
Many of the questions that our guides get, we send along with these exhibits about 20
Americans who speak Russian fluently.
And the Russians who come through at the rate of anywhere from 10 to 15,000 a day are asking
questions not only about the exhibit, but about the United States and how we live.
And they come up to a guide and say, how much did that suit cost you?
How long did you have to work in order to buy it and so forth?
And this is one of the most effective methods we have of communicating with people in the
Soviet Union.
How I think it is effective, but of course your effectiveness is somewhat limited by the
extent that they will let you take the exhibits around.
That is true.
We also print in the Soviet Union a magazine, an ARCA illustrated, which has a circulation
of 52,000.
It would of course skyrocket, but we are limited to the 52,000 by agreement with the Soviet
Union.
They print a similar magazine in this country.
But in terms of effectiveness, Senator, you might be interested to know that a few months
ago in our broadcast to Yugoslavia, we ran a little contest to give away a few transistor
radio receivers.
And we made a few announcements over a period of one week and we received better than
18,000 letters from Yugoslavia.
And then you do our programs in satellite nations such as Czechoslovakia, Poland.
We operate the voice of America operates in 36 languages.
We estimate our audience to be roughly 20 million, however, in addition to the shortwave
broadcast.
We undertake what is called a package programming that is we do tapes and records here and
supply them to local medium wave stations.
And there of course is where you get the audience.
And we reckon our audience there to be in the area of 45 million people.
I believe that on the 24th of this month, everywhere, the voice of America will have its
20th anniversary.
Is that correct?
We think we're achieving majority now.
Well, I think it's one of the most valuable programs about learning about this country,
both inside and outside the iron, iron curtain countries.
And one of the great, you know, sensitive and important places in the world today is
of course the newly developing nations of Africa.
And our success or our failure there is going to have a great bearing upon the future
of the world.
You have, I believe, just recently returned from a two or three week visit to Africa, have
you not?
Yes, I did.
But tell us how do you think our foreign policy and our programs are getting along enough?
Well, I think we are doing moderately well, but I came back from three weeks all of it
in West Africa, by the way, with a feeling that there is so much to do and so little time
in which to do it.
I have never encountered such a combination of candor, curiosity and suspicion.
Suspicion of us, suspicion of the Russian, suspicion of each other.
But there is all along that coast of West Africa in these new countries.
What kind of a determination?
Well, I started at Dakar and then went down the coast to Leopoldville.
And it was this determination to explode into the second half of the 20th century.
Now an appetite to read, for example, in Africa, south of the Sahara, there are probably, although
no one has exact figures on this.
Probably one copy of one newspaper for each 1000 people.
The channels of communication traditionally ran north and south, that is, to Paris, to
London or to Brussels during the colonial period.
So there is now this appetite to learn, I think, someday a perceptive historian is going
to conclude that the development of the transistor radio was one of the most important events
in this century because it means that it is now possible to communicate by radio with
people who are electric, who have no power supply, who have no money economy.
I found, for example, in Guinea and Ghana, two areas that have been heavily penetrated
by the Soviet Union, that there is developing a certain disillusionment with the Soviet Union
because the Russians, historically in any part of the world, are miserable expatriates.
They don't like living outside the Soviet Union.
They don't like the climate.
They drive their cars too fast.
They soak up the good housing.
They tend to treat the local citizens with a degree of content.
I came back with the feeling that in West Africa, nothing is lost, that we are always to
remind ourselves that communism has not taken over outside the shadow of Russian tanks
or bayonets.
And that while these people are shopping around in the vernacular playing both sides of
the street, that still our revolutionary tradition, our feeling that we share their aspirations
and their desires.
There are very powerful influences in the whole area.
And I want to say that I think it's the USIA and your intelligent work of the various
parts of this agency is doing more than any other activity of the government, ensuring
that we have a true picture of freedom and liberty and what we are trying to do.
Senator, what we mean to them?
When it comes time for us to ask for our appropriations this year, I shall come back and remind you
of that and hope you will use your influence with your colleagues.
Well, I think you've always appreciated the fact that I think particularly under you
this agency is doing a tremendously good job.
I think what we need more of is to let people in other countries know about the real
United States.
You're doing that.
Do you feel on the whole very briefly that we are succeeding, that we are getting ahead
in our effort in Africa?
I think we are making very considerable progress.
And I say there is so much to do.
I think there are going to be new constellations of power, perhaps new collisions in Africa.
I had the feeling as a matter of fact at the end of this trip in Africa that maybe
Mr. Dooley was right when he said anybody who isn't confused doesn't understand what's
going on.
Well, thank you very much, Ed Morrow.
And I know friends all of you have enjoyed having Ed Morrow with us today as I have, we
wish you well in your very important efforts there.
Thank you, Senator.
That's all for now.